Webops release note (#1286)
vtex/faststore: docs/blog/2022-05-11-webops.md

---
description: Improved WebOps build time 
tags: [webops]
---

# Optimized WebOps build time

> We updated the WebOps infrastructure to improve building times by using cache of previous builds and reducing the amount of necessary files needed for serving a store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We updated the WebOps infrastructure to improve building times by using cache of previous builds and reducing the amount of files needed for serving a store.
```

---
description: Improved WebOps build time 
tags: [webops]
---

# Optimized WebOps build time

> We updated the WebOps infrastructure to improve the building time by providing a unified system for building and serving nodejs apps on WebOps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We updated the WebOps infrastructure to improve building times by using cache of previous builds and reducing the amount of necessary files needed for serving a store.
```

## What has changed?

### WebOps Unified Build 

> WebOps Unified Build is a new unified system for WebOps builds that generates the new '.webops' folder to reduce data and improv the building time. 

Reviewer: Maybe remove all these things related to `.webops`. These are internal details. Leave the before/after build times.

This system also includes a new `faststore` builder that is responsible for building both Gatsby v3/Gatsby v4/Next.JS 12 projects into the `.webops` folder.

The `.webops` folder is the only one uploaded to [HyperCas](https://github.com/vtex/hyper-cas), and contains:

- The necessary code to run dynamic portions of the code (lambda functions).

- The necessary files for serving using [Nginx](https://www.nginx.com/), as well as a `nginx.conf`.

- The necessary setup for running nodejs containers locally.

The WebOps Unified Build reduces build and deployment overhead as you can see
on the table below:

| Store  |  Before |  After |
|---|---|---|
| `gatsby.store`  |  13m | 5m  |
| `nextjs.store`  | 6m  | 5m  |

### Framework cache for Next.JS projects

> Next.JS projects now have infrastructure for caching which improves response times and reduces the number of requests to external services. 

Reviewer: this part is great!

After the implementation of caching `next build` times were decreased from 63s to only 34s `nextjs.store`.

## Why did we make these changes?

> The goal of these improvements is to reduce WebOps overhead by enhancing the generation, saving, and deploying of compilation artifacts while also decreasing build time.

Reviewer: nice!
